Prioritization Polling Questions

Poll Question 1:
Rank the importance of incorporating bioavailability adjustments into sediment standards. (1 = very important to 5 = not important)

Poll Question 2:
Rank the feasibility of incorporating bioavailability adjustments into sediment standards. (1 = easily achievable to 5 = not feasible)

Ranking Question 3:
To help focus development of matrix standards, please rank the four actions below for the degree to which they would improve utility of the standards (1 = top priority; 4 = lowest priority). If you do not know or have an opinion, do not respond to any given question.
Distinguish "direct toxicity" and "food pathway toxicity" pathways explicitly.
Clarify approach for incorporating human health endpoints in matrix standards.
Clarify how spatial scale (areal spatial extent, vertical depth profile) is incorporated in application of matrix standards.
Clarify whether and how multiple levels of protection are applied to account for differences in ecological sensitivity.

Ranking Question 4:
Of the four options below, what focus will provide greatest value to holistic sediment management in BC? (1 = top priority; 4 = lowest priority)
Push guidance beyond generic numerical standards: Apply models and other technical tools to help develop Site-Specific Sediment Standards (Tier 2) for ecological health (e.g., equilibrium partitioning [EqP], acid volatile sulphides/simultaneously extractable metals [AVS/SEM], other modifying factors)
Fill gaps and use surrogates: Develop Sediment Standards for missing substances and groups, using contaminants with an analogue (e.g., quantitative structure-activity relationship [QSAR]).
Increase guidance for effects-based tools: Develop guidance for site-specific toxicity testing and/or biological monitoring, to evaluate site-specific risks beyond screening level assessment.
Incorporate models and/or approaches for common mixtures: Develop sediment standards based on mixture models (e.g., target lipid model for petroleum hydrocarbons, toxic equivalents) rather than individual substances.

Wordcloud Question 5:
Overall, what is the greatest constraint to advancing holistic sediment protection in BC?
Data availability (quantity, quality)
Tools (models, test protocols, decision trees)
Agreement on application (e.g., protection goals, spatial scale, matrix approach)
Prescription (balance between consistency and flexibility [tiering] across different sites)
Resourcing (e.g., effort of developing approach/tools, consultation, documentation)
Other